Hi, welcome back.
In this video we're looking at
class method and static method decorators.
We've looked at how we can define classes and methods
and including some special methods,
like dunder init and dunder len.
And all these methods had something in common,
which is the self parameter at the start.
As a reminder, I've written here some code
which is a stringed class, that we've already seen.
We've got self, and self.
Remember, we can call this parameter whatever we want,
but the convention in Python is to call it self.
The most important thing about this parameter
is the value that it points to,
the value that it represents.
Which is the object.
When we create a new object from the Student class
and we call any of its methods
we are automatically passing in the self parameter,
and we've seen that.
Let me just put some code in here,
which creates a new student, Rolf,
and it appends a couple of marks to him
and then prints out the average function.
Remember what this is doing is just
doing the student.average and passing in rolf.
So we're accessing the average method of the student class
and we're passing rolf in a the first argument.
Rolf.average does the same thing,
only Python does this for us in the background.
So when we do object.method that really is doing
class.method and then passing the object in there.
And this knowledge lets us do some pretty weird stuff.
I don't recommend you do this as it's gonna break things
but we could do something like student.average, hello,
passing in a string.
Obviously this is not gonna work
because the average method here expects an object
that has a marks property.
A string does not have a marks property
so when we run this it's gonna tell us
that a string doesn't have an attribute, marks.
See?
But, nonetheless you can do this because
self can be anything you want.
As I said earlier, the important thing
is the value that self represents,
which should be an object of type student
so that it has these marks,
sorry, name, school, and marks properties.
Just remember that self is a parameter like any other
and you can give it any value you want.
However, doing hello.marks is not gonna work
because the string doesn't have that property.
Anyway, so why is this important?
This first type of method we've looked at
is commonly called an instance method.
It's one that takes the core object as the first argument,
and that's self.
So the caller here is rolf.
When we call the average, it takes in rolf
as the first argument.
This is called an instance method.
There are two more types of method.
One that takes the caller's class as the first argument,
and one that takes nothing as the first argument.
So instance method takes the object, that's rolf,
as the first argument,
then we've got another type,
which takes the class, that's student, as the first argument
and there's one that takes nothing as the first argument.
Let's have a look at one that take the caller's class
as the first argument.
We're going to define a new class here,
and I'm just going to show you the syntax,
and in the next video we're going to look at some examples.
So these examples are going to be pretty terrible.
We're gonna define a class which we're gonna call foo
and in it we're gonna have an @classmethod that is hi.
So notice, by the way, I've not really said this before,
but you do not need an init method on every class.
You can just ignore it and then you just won't
define any properties to begin with.
That's totally fine, you don't need one.
So we've got this @classmethod decorator
and we know it's a decorator
because it has the @ symbol in front.
And now I've renamed the first argument
to be cls instead of self.
That's just to tell me that this is a class method,
and that this parameter is going to hold
the value of the class that it was called with.
So that's foo.
Let's print cls.__name__, okay?
Then I am going to create a object of type foo
and I'm going to say my object.hi.
Now, important, what's happening in the background
is that not my object, my emphasis not, getting passed
as the first argument.
Now the object's class is getting passed
So what do you think we're going to see printed out here?
I hope you got that right.
What we'll see is foo, so let's run that.
And as you can see what we see printed out here is foo.
That's because cls.__name__ gives us the name of the class
and cls is the class, so that's foo.
Now, terrible example, I just wanted
to show you the syntax,
and again cls is just a name for the parameter,
you can call it whatever you want.
If you wanted to be really quite silly,
you could call it self.
Terrible idea, don't do that.
Because then it's just gonna confuse you.
Okay, this is not self, this is not the object
that you're currently dealing with.
cls is the convention because it stands for class.
Just call it that, I think that's a better idea.
Now another example, we could, instead of @classmethod,
define class Bar, that's gonna have @staticmethod.
This static method takes no parameters,
notice that there's nothing inside there
and it just prints something,
hello, I don't take parameters.
I don't take parameters.
I just have this really bad habit of
calling parameters arguments and vice versa.
Don't fall into that bad habit.
Just call them parameters when they're here,
arguments when they are here.
And that's the correct naming.
Now we can say another_object is Bar,
and we can say another_object.hi,
and we can run this.
And now you see that it says
Hello, I don't take parameters.
So that's good.
These pieces of syntax are just so that
you can modify what the method takes in.
How you use them is totally up to you.
So, frequently the class methods are going to be used
when you want something that
wants to have access to the class.
And static methods are going to be used
when you want a method here that
doesn't use the current object or the class
but it's somehow related to the class.
In the next video we're going to look at a couple examples.
So just remember this syntax for now.
And now in the next video we're gonna look at some examples,
and throughout the course
we're gonna be using this quite a few times.
So don't worry if it doesn't fully click.
I just wanted to show you what it looks like.
Now, let's move on to the next video.
I'll see you there.